.TH POWERTOP "8" "2014-08-02" "powertop manual" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
powertop \- a power consumption and power management diagnosis tool.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B powertop
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B powertop
is a program that helps to diagnose various issues with power consumption
and power management.  It also has an interactive mode allowing one to
experiment with various power management settings.  When invoking
powertop without arguments powertop starts in interactive mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-auto\-tune
Set all tunable options to their good setting without interaction.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-calibrate
Runs powertop in calibration mode.  When running on battery, powertop can
track power consumption as well as system activity.  When there are
enough measurements, powertop can start to report power estimates.  One
can get more accurate estimates by using this option to enable a
calibration cycle.  This will cycle through various display levels and
USB device activities and workloads.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-csv\fR[=\fIfilename\fR]
Generate a CSV report.  If a
.I filename
is not specified then the default name
.B powertop.csv
is used.  The CSV report can be used for reporting and data analysis.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Run in debug mode.
.TP
\fB\-\-extech\fR=\fIdevnode\fR
Use the Extech Power Analyzer for measurements.  This allows one to
specify the serial device node of the serial to USB adaptor connecting to
the Extech Power Analyzer, for example
.IR /dev/ttyUSB0 .
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-html\fR[=\fIfilename\fR]
Generate an HTML report.  If a
.I filename
is not specified then the default name
.B powertop.html
is used.  The HTML report can be sent to others to help diagnose power
issues.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-iteration\fR[=\fIiterations\fR]
Number of times to run each test.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress stderr output.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR[=\fIseconds\fR]
Generate a report for a specified number of
.IR seconds .
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-workload\fR[=\fIworkload\fR]
Execute
.I workload
file as a part of calibration before making a report.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show the help message and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
In interactive mode, the following key bindings are available:
.IP
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
\fBTab\fR@Show next tab
\fBBackTab\fR@Show previous tab
\fBRight Arrow\fR@Scroll to the right
\fBLeft Arrow\fR@Scroll to the left
\fBUp Arrow\fR, \fBPageUp\fR@Scroll up or select previous item
\fBDown Arrow\fR, \fBPageDown\fR@Scroll down or select next item
\fBSpace\fR, \fBReturn\fR@Activate current item
\fBs\fR@Set refresh timeout
\fBr\fR@Refresh window
\fBq\fR, \fBCtrl-C\fR, \fBEscape\fR@Exit powertop
.TE
.SH BUGS
Send bug reports to
.MT powertop@lists.01.org
.ME
.SH SEE ALSO
The program is more fully described at
.UR https://01.org/powertop
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
powertop was written by
.MT arjan@\:linux.\:intel.\:com
Arjan van de Ven
.ME ,
and is currently maintained by
.MT chris.\:e.\:ferron@\:linux.\:intel.\:com
Chris E Ferron
.ME .
